README.md, before:

# Byul's World – Simulation & Pathfinding Engine

`byul` started as a **pathfinding engine**,  
and has evolved to include **maze generation, projectile trajectory prediction, control systems (MPC/PID), and numerical analysis**,  
making it a **lightweight and high-performance simulation engine**.

> 💖 If you enjoy this project, consider supporting development at [paypal.me/jrjojr](https://paypal.me/jrjojr)

---

## ✨ Key Features
- **Pathfinding**  
  Supports A*, Dijkstra, BFS, D* Lite for both static and dynamic pathfinding.
- **Maze Generation**  
  Includes Binary Tree, Eller, Kruskal, and other maze generation algorithms.
- **Projectile Trajectory Prediction**  
  Predicts projectile paths with gravity, drag, and wind using RK4/Verlet integration.
- **Control Systems**  
  PID and Model Predictive Control (MPC) for path and motion control.
- **Numerical Core**  
  Implements vec3, quat, dualquat, dualnumber-based 3D math operations.
- **Modular Architecture**  
  Includes `numeq`, `controller`, `motion_state`, and `trajectory` as independent modules.

---

## 📜 Project Evolution
1. **Pathfinding Engine**  
   Implemented A*, Dijkstra, D* Lite → 2D testing with `PySide6`.
2. **Maze Generation**  
   Added Binary Tree, Prim, Eller, Kruskal algorithms.
3. **Numerical & Physics Core**  
   Introduced vec3, quat, dualquat, and motion_state for 3D math and physics.
4. **Control Systems**  
   Integrated PID, Bang-Bang, and MPC-based control.
5. **Projectile Trajectory Prediction**  
   Added Euler, Semi-Implicit, Verlet, RK4 integrators with trajectory recording.

---

## 🚀 Build & Run
### Linux / macOS
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jrjojr/byul_env.git
cd byul
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make -j$(nproc)
ctest
```

### Windows (MinGW)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jrjojr/byul_env.git
cd byul
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -G "MinGW Makefiles" ..
mingw32-make -j4
ctest
```

---

## 🧪 Test Examples
### Pathfinding (A*)
```c
    navgrid_t* m = navgrid_create();

    coord_t start;
    coord_init_full(&start, 0, 0);

    coord_t goal; 
    coord_init_full(&goal, 9, 9);

    route_finder_t* rf = route_finder_create(m);
    route_finder_set_start(rf, &start);
    route_finder_set_goal(rf, &goal);

    // 장애물 삽입 (세로 차단)
    for (int y = 1; y < 10; ++y)
        navgrid_block_coord(m, 5, y);

    route_t* p = route_finder_run(rf);

    CHECK(route_get_success(p) == true);

    route_print(p);
    navgrid_print_ascii_with_visited_count(m, p, 5);

    route_destroy(p);
    route_finder_destroy(rf);
    navgrid_destroy(m);
```

### Projectile Trajectory Prediction (RK4)
```c
TEST_CASE("projectile_predict - ground collision") {
    MESSAGE("\nprojectile_predict - ground collision");
    vec3_t start_pos = {0, 500, 0};
    vec3_t target_pos = {0, 0, 0};
    projectile_t proj;
    projectile_init(&proj);
    proj.base.xf.pos = start_pos;

    entity_dynamic_t entdyn;
    entity_dynamic_init(&entdyn);
    entdyn.xf.pos = target_pos;

    projectile_result_t* result = projectile_result_create();

    environ_t env;
    environ_init(&env);

    bool hit = projectile_predict(
        result,          // [out] 발사체 궤적 및 충돌 정보 저장 (projectile_result_t*)
        &proj,           // [in]  발사체 엔티티
        &entdyn,         // [in]  타겟 엔티티 (충돌 판정 대상)
        500.0f,          // [in]  max_time: 예측 최대 시간 (초)
        1.0f,            // [in]  time_step: 시뮬레이션 샘플링 간격 (초)
        &env,            // [in]  환경 정보 (중력, 바람 등)
        nullptr,         // [in]  추진기 (없으면 null)
        guidance_none    // [in]  유도 함수 포인터 (없으면 guidance_none)
    );

    CHECK(hit == true);
    CHECK(result->valid == true);
    CHECK(result->impact_time > 0.0f);
    CHECK(result->impact_pos.y == doctest::Approx(0.0f).epsilon(1.0f));

    trajectory_print(result->trajectory);
    char buf[64];
    printf("impact time : %f, impact pos : %s\n", result->impact_time, 
        vec3_to_string(&result->impact_pos, buf, 64));    
    projectile_result_destroy(result);
}
```

---

## 📘 Why `route` instead of `path`?

In Byul's World, the term **`route`** is used instead of `path` for the following reasons:

- `path` is commonly associated with filesystem paths, which can be confusing.
- `route` better reflects the **"strategic path to a destination"** in the context of games.
- The distinction between **static search (`route_finder`)** and **dynamic search (`dstar_lite`)** is clearer with `route`.

> This terminology is part of the design philosophy and is used consistently across the project.

---

Contact: **byuldev@outlook.kr**

---

## 📄 License
- **Byul World Public License v1.0**  
  - Free for personal learning and research  
  - Commercial use and redistribution are prohibited  
  - See the LICENSE file for details

---

## 💬 Developer’s Note
> `byul` has evolved beyond simple pathfinding to become a **real-time simulation engine**.  
> From pathfinding to projectile trajectory prediction,  
> this project serves as the foundation for creating **Byul's World**.

Commit message:

fix: Improve comments for projectile prediction function parameters in README

README.md, after:

# Byul's World – Simulation & Pathfinding Engine

`byul` started as a **pathfinding engine**,  
and has evolved to include **maze generation, projectile trajectory prediction, control systems (MPC/PID), and numerical analysis**,  
making it a **lightweight and high-performance simulation engine**.

> 💖 If you enjoy this project, consider supporting development at [paypal.me/jrjojr](https://paypal.me/jrjojr)

---

## ✨ Key Features
- **Pathfinding**  
  Supports A*, Dijkstra, BFS, D* Lite for both static and dynamic pathfinding.
- **Maze Generation**  
  Includes Binary Tree, Eller, Kruskal, and other maze generation algorithms.
- **Projectile Trajectory Prediction**  
  Predicts projectile paths with gravity, drag, and wind using RK4/Verlet integration.
- **Control Systems**  
  PID and Model Predictive Control (MPC) for path and motion control.
- **Numerical Core**  
  Implements vec3, quat, dualquat, dualnumber-based 3D math operations.
- **Modular Architecture**  
  Includes `numeq`, `controller`, `motion_state`, and `trajectory` as independent modules.

---

## 📜 Project Evolution
1. **Pathfinding Engine**  
   Implemented A*, Dijkstra, D* Lite → 2D testing with `PySide6`.
2. **Maze Generation**  
   Added Binary Tree, Prim, Eller, Kruskal algorithms.
3. **Numerical & Physics Core**  
   Introduced vec3, quat, dualquat, and motion_state for 3D math and physics.
4. **Control Systems**  
   Integrated PID, Bang-Bang, and MPC-based control.
5. **Projectile Trajectory Prediction**  
   Added Euler, Semi-Implicit, Verlet, RK4 integrators with trajectory recording.

---

## 🚀 Build & Run
### Linux / macOS
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jrjojr/byul_env.git
cd byul
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make -j$(nproc)
ctest
```

### Windows (MinGW)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jrjojr/byul_env.git
cd byul
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -G "MinGW Makefiles" ..
mingw32-make -j4
ctest
```

---

## 🧪 Test Examples
### Pathfinding (A*)
```c
    navgrid_t* m = navgrid_create();

    coord_t start;
    coord_init_full(&start, 0, 0);

    coord_t goal; 
    coord_init_full(&goal, 9, 9);

    route_finder_t* rf = route_finder_create(m);
    route_finder_set_start(rf, &start);
    route_finder_set_goal(rf, &goal);

    // 장애물 삽입 (세로 차단)
    for (int y = 1; y < 10; ++y)
        navgrid_block_coord(m, 5, y);

    route_t* p = route_finder_run(rf);

    CHECK(route_get_success(p) == true);

    route_print(p);
    navgrid_print_ascii_with_visited_count(m, p, 5);

    route_destroy(p);
    route_finder_destroy(rf);
    navgrid_destroy(m);
```

### Projectile Trajectory Prediction (RK4)
```c
TEST_CASE("projectile_predict - ground collision") {
    MESSAGE("\nprojectile_predict - ground collision");
    vec3_t start_pos = {0, 500, 0};
    vec3_t target_pos = {0, 0, 0};
    projectile_t proj;
    projectile_init(&proj);
    proj.base.xf.pos = start_pos;

    entity_dynamic_t entdyn;
    entity_dynamic_init(&entdyn);
    entdyn.xf.pos = target_pos;

    projectile_result_t* result = projectile_result_create();

    environ_t env;
    environ_init(&env);

    bool hit = projectile_predict(
        result,          // [out] Stores the predicted trajectory and impact information
        &proj,           // [in]  Projectile entity
        &entdyn,         // [in]  Target entity (collision check target)
        500.0f,          // [in]  max_time: Maximum prediction time (seconds)
        1.0f,            // [in]  time_step: Simulation sampling interval (seconds)
        &env,            // [in]  Environment data (gravity, wind, etc.)
        nullptr,         // [in]  Propulsion system (null if none)
        guidance_none    // [in]  Guidance function pointer (guidance_none or nullptr)
    );

    CHECK(hit == true);
    CHECK(result->valid == true);
    CHECK(result->impact_time > 0.0f);
    CHECK(result->impact_pos.y == doctest::Approx(0.0f).epsilon(1.0f));

    trajectory_print(result->trajectory);
    char buf[64];
    printf("impact time : %f, impact pos : %s\n", result->impact_time, 
        vec3_to_string(&result->impact_pos, buf, 64));    
    projectile_result_destroy(result);
}
```

---

## 📘 Why `route` instead of `path`?

In Byul's World, the term **`route`** is used instead of `path` for the following reasons:

- `path` is commonly associated with filesystem paths, which can be confusing.
- `route` better reflects the **"strategic path to a destination"** in the context of games.
- The distinction between **static search (`route_finder`)** and **dynamic search (`dstar_lite`)** is clearer with `route`.

> This terminology is part of the design philosophy and is used consistently across the project.

---

Contact: **byuldev@outlook.kr**

---

## 📄 License
- **Byul World Public License v1.0**  
  - Free for personal learning and research  
  - Commercial use and redistribution are prohibited  
  - See the LICENSE file for details

---

## 💬 Developer’s Note
> `byul` has evolved beyond simple pathfinding to become a **real-time simulation engine**.  
> From pathfinding to projectile trajectory prediction,  
> this project serves as the foundation for creating **Byul's World**.
